hi everyone my name is sally and i'm one
of the expert toefl teachers here at e2
language
and today we are going to look at toefl
integrated speaking
task 2 campus situation
in this video lesson i'll describe the
task to you
i'll show you a sample question and
a note taking template to go with it
finally i'll show you how to use your
notes to prepare your answer
and i'll give you some tips on how to
ace this task
let's get into it for this task you'll
first be asked to read an announcement
about a campus related issue
then you'll be asked to listen to a
conversation
between two people who will be
discussing the issue that you just read
about
finally you'll be asked to summarize the
opinion
of one of the speakers you'll also be
expected to use the information from the
reading
to be able to contextualize the
speaker's opinion now let's look at the
time
so the reading passage that they give
you is between 75 to 100 words
and you're given 45 to 50 seconds
to read that passage
then that passage disappears and the
listening starts
automatically the listening is about 150
to 180 words long
and lasts between 60 to 80 seconds
finally when you're asked to summarize
the opinion of one of the speakers
you'll be given 30 seconds to prepare
your answer
and 60 seconds to speak
a time on the screen will show you these
times
are you ready to look at the sample
question
here we go so this is kind of what the
reading passage will look like
before we start reading i want to show
you my note taking template
while you're reading it is very
important to take notes
because the passage will disappear from
the screen and you won't get to see it
again
before you answer the question so if you
take
notes beforehand this will not only
guide your listening
when you're listening to the
conversation you sort of know what to
look for
and what some of the reasons might be
it'll also help you prepare your answer
and organize it
better if you know exactly what the
reading was about
so there's basically three things that
you need to note down
and the reading usually has the same
structure
so this should be pretty easy and you
should be able to
figure this out pretty quickly if you
practice it a few times
so the reading will usually start off by
announcing
some sort of a change that's going to
happen on campus
or some issue that's important to
students
and this is something you want to note
down that's the first thing you want to
put down
and then the reading will give you
reasons for why this change
has been made or why this issue is
important
and there'll almost always be two
reasons given for the change or the
issue
all right now i want you to read this
passage
and note down the change and the two
reasons given for that change
you have 50 seconds to read the passage
your time starts now
how did you go were you able to note
down the change and the reasons for it
i'll show you my notes so you can
compare
all right this might be a little
confusing for some of you
but basically what i have done is not
written down full words used a lot of
abbreviations and symbols
and i've done this to basically save
time because you only have 50 seconds
in which you need to read and understand
what's written in the passage
and you also want to take down some
important notes
so this is what my notes say
so the issue or change being announced
is that the university is going to
restrict online storage
so the first reason for it is because
students have been sharing
audio and video files and the storage
space was
actually meant only for academic
documents
and the second reason is because the
constant uploading and downloading
um has sort of made the internet speed
quite slow and this is basically what my
notes tell me
so when i look at my notes i understand
all of these things
and it's important that you understand
your notes
your notes will not be marked they will
not be seen by the examiner
so don't worry too much about correct
spelling
or writing down complete words just
write it just make sure that you can
understand
the ideas that were in the reading just
by looking at your notes
okay all right now let's listen to the
conversation
again let me share my note-taking
template with you first
so the conversation will always have two
speakers
one would usually be a man and the other
would be a woman
and at this point you don't really know
which person's opinion they are going to
ask you about
so you will have to take notes about the
opinion of both the speakers
so here in the left hand column i've got
s1 which is basically speaker 1
and i want to note down their opinion
the reason for their opinion and the
second reason that they give for their
opinion
again it'll almost always be structured
this way
where the person will state their
opinion whether they agree or disagree
with the new policy
or the change that's been announced and
they'll give
two reasons to support their opinion and
this is basically what we'll be asked
to summarize so make sure you note these
things down
for the first speaker and the second
speaker
all right hopefully you've copied down
this note taking template on your
scratch pad
and are ready to listen to the
conversation now
here we go good maybe now the internet
will run at a decent speed
good what do you mean they're
restricting our online access
well all the uploading and downloading
of files has been taking up bandwidth
and disrupting my usage of the internet
i've been trying to work on my computer
science project on the internet and the
dorms
but i can't get anything done because
everything is so slow
now students will stop abusing the
storage space and start using it for
what it was meant for
well i guess some restrictions are okay
but they're limiting our space
so much i think i'm sharing like one or
two gigs of files on my space
that's all of my research for my thesis
how am i going to fit
it all into 50 megabytes i think 50
megabytes is plenty of room to share
files with
this storage space was originally
intended for students to share reports
and projects with each other to make it
easier to do group work and stuff
but now people are taking advantage of
that by sharing music and movies and
videos
so that those of us who actually need to
use the internet for schoolwork
can't i didn't realize it becomes such a
problem
how did you go were you able to catch
the opinion of both the speakers
i'll show you my notes so you can
compare
so what i've noted down is that speaker
one which was the woman
thinks that this is good because the
internet speed will go up
and she complains about not being able
to get her project done
because the internet speed was so slow
and then speaker two which was the guy
he says
he's not very happy about it because
they're restricting
access and that's not quite fair
and then he says that they're limiting
it too much
and he can't really fit his his entire
thesis in those
50 mb that the university is offering
them now
and the woman disagrees and says that 50
mb
is enough only students stop abusing the
storage space
um she sort of reiterates what the
reading was saying that it was
initially um created the online storage
space was created so that students could
share group work and it's not meant for
sharing movies and audio visual files
um and that's just been something that
students have been doing
recently and then the guy says he didn't
know that was
so bad so that was pretty much the
entire
conversation and just by looking at my
notes
i should be able to more or less
recreate
that conversation once the conversation
is over
the question prompt will automatically
show up on your screen
and the narrator so there will be a
narrator throughout the speaking section
who will read the directions out for you
and the question
as well once the narrator has read out
the question
for you then the 30 seconds preparation
time will start
here's our question prompt
the woman expresses her opinion about
the university's decision
to restrict the online storage space
available to students
state her opinion and explain the
reasons she gives
for holding that opinion
okay so now we know that we need to
focus on the woman's opinion
which is kind of easy right because she
did talk more and she did sort of
elaborate on why she thinks it's a good
thing
so let's look at our notes again and see
how we can use them to make a sample
answer
your listening notes will pretty much
guide your response
so you only need to think about the
transition words that you're going to
use
and how you're going to showcase your
language
to the examiner your listening notes
will mainly guide the structure of your
answer
so we need to start off by explaining
what the woman's opinion is
and sort of contextualize it so talk
about
she likes it or she dislikes it what is
it so you need to
summarize the issue you need to state
her opinion
and you need to give the reasons that
she gives for holding that opinion
it might sound a little bit confusing
but i'll show you my sample answer and
it'll all make sense
so i've got 60 seconds to speak
the woman is pleased with the
university's move to
limit the student's online storage space
she believes this will help improve the
internet speed on campus
this is important to her because she has
been struggling to get her project done
because of the poor internet speed she's
of the opinion
that 50 mb is a fair amount of storage
space
if students stop abusing it she echoes
the announcement put out by the
university
claiming that the storage space was
actually meant to
facilitate sharing of academic documents
for group assignments projects and such
and not for uploading and downloading
large media files
overall the woman is very happy with the
university's decision
remember that your sample answer should
be such
that a person who has not read the
announcement or listened to the
conversation
should still be able to understand what
you're talking about
that's why it's important to use
information from the reading
and the conversation to explain what
exactly is going on
now that you've seen the sample answer i
want you to give it a go
before you do that here are some tips to
help you out
make sure you keep your notes well
organized
these notes will help you structure your
answer and make sure that you stay on
topic
and you're just answering the question
and not sort of
rambling on to be able to take efficient
notes
you need to avoid writing full words and
sentences
try and use abbreviations where you can
or just the first couple of letters of a
word
don't worry about spelling use a lot of
symbols
come up with your own system of note
taking
be sure that you're making the speaker's
opinion very clear
because this is what the question is
asking you to do
so make sure that the opinion is clear
and you have stated the right reasons
for it
this is super important do not
ever give your own opinion in task 2.
they ask for your opinion in task 1 but
task 2
is solely about summarizing someone
else's opinion
so even if you're running out of time
it's better to use a concluding sentence
rather than giving your own opinion so
make sure you don't do that because
you will lose marks for it so refrain
from
giving your own opinion and my final tip
is that practice makes perfect so keep
practicing
and you'll see how this will help you
improve over time
and my final tip is practice makes
perfect
if you need access to practice materials
you can go to e2language.com
where we have a whole bunch of resources
for you
we have a toefl course which you can
access
for free you have a mini mock test
which is basically a timed simulation of
the real test
so once you're confident you can put
your skills to the test
by taking the minimock test and if you
feel like you need some extra help
you can book one-on-one tutorials with
our expert
teachers you can also submit your
writing
and speaking for feedback and you can
access
all of our live classes where we teach
you note-taking skills
uh we work on your fluency pronunciation
intonation basically everything that the
examiners are looking for in your
answers
and be sure to subscribe like comment
and share
[Music]
you